README.md, before:

## About
This repository contains all necessary the code to replicate results of paper: **Adversarial examples by perturbing high-level features in intermediate decoder layers**

## Dependencies
For main body of our experiments is used PyTorch (1.9.0). Additional libraries, Foolbox (3.3.1.) Geomloss, and pretrained ImageNet models can be installed using pip:
```
pip install foolbox
pip install geomloss
pip install pytorch_pretrained_gans
pip install efficientnet-pytorch
```
## Pretrained MNIST models
This repository contains weights of pretrained PyTorch models used in the MNIST experiments.


Weights are stored in:
```
models/runs
```

Model definitions are in 

```
models/models.py
```

Most convinient way to access and use the pretrained models is to use classes prepared in the ``` models/pretrained.py ``` file.

## MNIST experiments
### Generate MNIST data

To generate additional MNIST samples, use ```sample_data.py```. To replicate our results, run it with following parameters:
```shell
python sample_data.py -g ali-mnist -c mnist-cls -o data --seed 1 -m grid
python sample_data.py -g ali-mnist -c mnist-cls -o data --seed 1 -m row
```

### Experiments

To run custom MNIST experiments, modify the .json file and run ```main.py``` file. To replicate our results, use provided ```experiment.json``` file and run:
```shell
python main.py -p "experiment.json" -i "data/sampled_data_grid.pickle" -o "results"
```

To replicate data used in the figures and tables, run follwing:
```shell
python compare_difference.py -i "data/sampled_data_row.pickle" -o "results"
python compare_cw_attacks.py -i "data/sampled_data_grid.pickle" -o "results"
```

## ImageNet experiments

To encode images to their latent representation to run following:
```shell
python imagenet_encode.py -p <folder with images to encode>
```

To replicate our imagenet results, run:
```shell
python imagenet_attack.py -p "experiment.json" -o "results" -z z_animals.npy -i z_broccoli.npy
```

## How to replicate figures
Figures for both MNIST and ImageNet experimets can be create using their respective ```create_figures.py``` file.

```shell
python create_figures.py -i <path to folder with results> -o <path to output folder>
```

Commit message:

add example image to readme

README.md, after:

## About
This repository contains all necessary the code to replicate results of paper: **Adversarial examples by perturbing high-level features in intermediate decoder layers**


We extend the usuall approach to constructing adversarial examples that are based on norm bound pixel perturbations. Instead of modifying pixels directly, we exploit high level features learned by generative models and modify outputs of middle layers in the decoder network. We demonstrate on MNIST and ImageNet datasets, in both targeted and untargeted settings, that our method keeps natural structure of the input data. Additionally, the our perturbations are concentrated around key features such as edges . This is in contrast to standard pixel based attacks, where the perturbation is in the form of randomly looking noise.


![Adversarial example](notebooks/figures/slides_imagenet_show2.png, "Adversarial example")

## Dependencies
For main body of our experiments is used PyTorch (1.9.0). Additional libraries, Foolbox (3.3.1.) Geomloss, and pretrained ImageNet models can be installed using pip:
```
pip install foolbox
pip install geomloss
pip install pytorch_pretrained_gans
pip install efficientnet-pytorch
```
## Pretrained MNIST models
This repository contains weights of pretrained PyTorch models used in the MNIST experiments.


Weights are stored in:
```
models/runs
```

Model definitions are in 

```
models/models.py
```

Most convinient way to access and use the pretrained models is to use classes prepared in the ``` models/pretrained.py ``` file.

## MNIST experiments
### Generate MNIST data

To generate additional MNIST samples, use ```sample_data.py```. To replicate our results, run it with following parameters:
```shell
python sample_data.py -g ali-mnist -c mnist-cls -o data --seed 1 -m grid
python sample_data.py -g ali-mnist -c mnist-cls -o data --seed 1 -m row
```

### Experiments

To run custom MNIST experiments, modify the .json file and run ```main.py``` file. To replicate our results, use provided ```experiment.json``` file and run:
```shell
python main.py -p "experiment.json" -i "data/sampled_data_grid.pickle" -o "results"
```

To replicate data used in the figures and tables, run follwing:
```shell
python compare_difference.py -i "data/sampled_data_row.pickle" -o "results"
python compare_cw_attacks.py -i "data/sampled_data_grid.pickle" -o "results"
```

## ImageNet experiments

To encode images to their latent representation to run following:
```shell
python imagenet_encode.py -p <folder with images to encode>
```

To replicate our imagenet results, run:
```shell
python imagenet_attack.py -p "experiment.json" -o "results" -z z_animals.npy -i z_broccoli.npy
```

## How to replicate figures
Figures for both MNIST and ImageNet experimets can be create using their respective ```create_figures.py``` file.

```shell
python create_figures.py -i <path to folder with results> -o <path to output folder>
```
